in this video we're going to look at the
design of basic CMOS logic circuits each
of our CMOS logic gates will have the
following complementary structure first
we have a connection to the positive
supply voltage called VCC and another
one to ground then we have our inputs in
this case two inputs a and B a single
output F a pull-up network that connects
the positive supply voltage to the
output and a pulldown network that
connects the output to the low supply
voltage or ground the pull-up network
connects to the supply voltage VCC and
it will be composed of only P Mo's
transistors while the pulldown network
connects to ground and that will be
composed of only n Mo's transistors the
important thing is that only the pull-up
network or the pulldown network can be
connecting the output to one of the
supply voltages at a time
so either the pull-up network is
conducting or the pulldown network is
conducting but will never have both
conducting at the same time otherwise
we'd short out our supply voltage the
pull-up network and the pulldown network
as we'll see our logical complements and
again the transistors were using our
CMOS which means complementary
metal-oxide-semiconductor the first CMOS
logic gate which we've already seen is
an inverter the pull-up network consists
of a single p MOS transistor while the
pulldown network consists of a single n
Mo's transistor if we have a low input
the N Mo's transistor is open and the P
Mo's transistor is like a switch that's
closed thus there's a conducting path
through the P Mo's transistor to the
positive supply voltage and the output
is high if we change the input to low
then the N Mo's transistor is like a
closed switch and there's a conducting
path between the output and ground
now we'll look at our first two input
CMOS logic gate the pulldown network
consists of two and maus transistors in
series while the pull-up network
consists of two P Mo's transistors in
parallel if both of the inputs are low
then there's a conducting path through
both branches of the pull-up network and
the output is high note that the
pulldown network both switches are open
so there is no connection to ground if I
set one of the inputs to a high I still
have a conducting path in the pull-up
network and there still is no conducting
path to ground in the pulldown same
thing happens if I switch the other
inputs I get a conducting path through
the other branch of the pull-up but
still no conducting path than the
pulldown on the other hand if both
inputs are set high I now have a
conducting path to ground through the
pulldown network but no conducting path
to the positive voltage through the
pull-up network looking at the resulting
truth table we see that this is the
function for a NAND gate not and now
let's take a look at a second example of
a CMOS logic circuit where the pulldown
network consists of two parallel and mas
transistors and the pull-up network
consists of two series CMOS transistors
in this case if both of the inputs are
low there's a conducting path between
the output and the and the positive
supply voltage since both of the PMO's
transistors are conducting or closed
switches with low inputs if we change
one of the inputs to a high voltage then
the pull-up network opens up but we do
have a conducting path through the left
branch of the pulldown network between
the output and ground so the output goes
to low if we switch both of the other
input to be high
we still have a conducting path through
the pulldown network this time through
the right branch but since the bottom
switch is open in the pull-up network
there is no conducting path to the
positive supply voltage now if we set
both of the inputs to high we still have
a conducting path to the through the
pulldown network this time through both
branches and no conducting path through
the pull-up Network if we look at the
resulting truth table this is the logic
for a boolean nor function or not or if
we wanted to design an or gate we could
simply add an inverter to the output of
an or gate note how the output of the
nor gate feeds into the input of the
inverter clicking through each of the
combinations we see that we now get the
truth table for a or gate similarly we
can construct an and gate by attaching
an inverter to the output of an and gate
you